[Music]
whether you love them or hate them cats
have been a regular fixture across our
cinema screens for decades I will make
my presence known to the world but
historically these Wiley house Panthers
have received something of a bad rap and
have become synonymous with slyness and
skullduggery you know I think I'm
allergic to your cat their connection to
witchcraft is typify by Richard Quinn's
Bell book link handle in which Kim
Novak's modern-day witch is smitten with
Jimmy Stewart and with the assistance of
her loyal Siamese familiar casts a love
spell over him and who couldn't forget
that before were even introduced to
James Bond's
arch-nemesis Ernst Blofeld we meet his
splendid silver white cat
I am Ernst Stavro Blofeld a detail which
became ripe for parody inspire satire
Austin Powers with Mike Myers aptly
named dr. evil
cats are the bad guys make no mistake
yet even when they're wicked cats can
demonstrate a surprising sense of
loyalty to their allies in Denis aru's
1977 horror anthology the uncanny three
cats belonging to three betrayed women
helped their mistress's exact cunning
revenge on those that have wronged them
meanwhile in Henry Salix Coraline a
sarcastic talking cat who bears a
similarity to Alice in Wonderland's
famous Cheshire puss helps the young
heroine navigate the other world we
can't have far superior senses than
humans he might be a little prickly but
this Kitty has claws and comes to Cora
lines aid when she needs him the most
in fact cats have always been fond of an
underdog proving the perfect companion
to cinemas most famous loners in
Breakfast at Tiffany's
flighty Holly Golightly's only true
friend is a ginger cat a cervical
thirdly Israel in Mariel Heller's Kenya
Oh forgive me loves her cat Jersey so
much she's willing turn to a life of
crime to pay for his medication
could I leave this care will you and for
Oscar Isaac it inside Llewyn Davis a
ginger cat named Ulysses becomes his
companion after he accidentally lets him
loose from a friend's apartment but cats
are finicky beasts and while the dog
will come when he's cold
cats aren't quite so trusting in
Francois Truffaut's day for night a film
about making a film the crew are plagued
by a stubborn kitten who refuses to act
for the camera ultimately cats are
always their own masters no film
captures the sentiment better than say
deterrence documentary kedi following
the remarkable lives of Street cats in
Istanbul Turkey and the joy that they
bring to the lives of their human
admirers why don't you tell me the rest
of the story
they're spooky they're kooky and
sometimes they're outright evil but cats
are ultimately criminally misunderstood
they live by their own rules fiercely
independent and why possibly smarter
than any of us it's hard to deny their
true cinematic perfection
[Music]
you